# 8.1 Python coding for reading and visualizing EO satellite data
This section introduces participants to understand ALOS-2 data.

## Content:
- 8.1.1 Introduction to ALOS-2 data 
- 8.1.2 Reading and visualizing ALOS-2 data

## 8.1.1 Introduction to ALOS-2 data
### a. (Basic) [Introduction to ALOS-2 data imagery](https://www.eoportal.org/satellite-missions/alos-2#alos-2-advanced-land-observing-satellite-2-sar-mission--daichi-2)

This website provides general information about the ALOS-2 (Daichi-2) satellite, their mission and its advanced SAR capabilities for Earth observation and disaster monitoring.
Learners wil understand the points below from this content:
1. Overview of ALOS-2.
2. Mission Capabilities
3. Performance Specifications
4. Space and Hardware Components
5. ALOS-2 (Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2; SAR mission) / Daichi-2
6. Spacecraft
7. Mission Status
8. Sensor Complement 
9. Ground System

### b. (Basic) [Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2（ALOS-2](https://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/alos2/pdf/daichi2_e.pdf)

This website provides overview of the Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2 "DAICHI-2", mission instrument, and introduce ALOS-2’s missions and specific examples of data application.
Learners wil understand the points below from this content:
1. The Earth needs a health check
2. L-band SAR Tradition and Evolution
3. Monitoring disasters for a safer life
4. Tackling global-scale environmental problems
5. Overview of the Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2 "DAISHI-2"
6. Evolution of DAICHI-2 from DAICHI
7. Mission Instrument
8. Satellite bus supporting DAISHI-2 and future satellite missions
9. Block diagram of the ALOS-2 system
10. Satellite operation after separation from H-IIA
11. Ground system and observation operation

### c. (Basic) [ALOS Data Application (Examples of Researches)](https://www.eorc.jaxa.jp/ALOS/en/gallery/example.htm)

NASDA's EORC classifies ALOS data application research areas into the following 12 categories;

- PRISM / AVNIR-2: Evaluation of PRISM and AVNIR-2 involves assessing sensor characteristics, image quality, geometric and radiometric calibration and validation, and developing methods for fast and accurate extraction of geo-physical parameters.
- PALSAR: Evaluation of PALSAR focuses on assessing sensor characteristics, image quality, geometric and radiometric calibration and validation, along with enhancing analysis methods using microwave scattering and SAR interference.
- Digital Elevation Model (DEM) and Mapping
- Land Use Monitoring and Land Cover Classification
- Disaster Monitoring
- Geological Surveying and Mineral Resource Exploration
- Terrestrial Ecosystem and Forestry Management
- Oceanography and Coastal Zone Related Research
- Snow and Ice Related Research
- Agriculture Management
- Hydrology and Water Resource Management
- Application Research using Geographical Information

## 8.1.2 (Basic) [Reading and visualizing ALOS-2 data]
### a. (Basic) [Python Principles](http://pythonprinciples.com/)

From this tutorials, learners will learn the basics of programming which acquire their knowledge through examples, definitions, and hands-on experimentation. They will improve Python skill with clear explanations and practical exercises. They will get instant feedback on their code, and can test themself with challenges and build skills with projects.

Learners wil learn about the Python Principles from the content below:
1. Introduction
2. Strings and variavles
3. Function calls
4. Function definitions
5. Types
6. Conditionals and comparisons
7. Lists
8. Loops
9. Continue and break
10. Tuples and slicing
11. Dictionaries
12. Objects and methods
13. Final advice

### b. [A Complete Guide to Data Visualization in Python With Libraries & More](https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/python-tutorial/data-visualization-in-python)

Data visualization is a field in data analysis focused on the graphical representation of data, making it easier to communicate and understand information through visual summaries like maps, graphs, and charts. It is particularly useful for processing large data sets that are difficult to analyze manually. Python offers several plotting libraries, namely Matplotlib, Seaborn and many other such data visualization packages with different features for creating informative, customized, and appealing plots to present data in the most simple and effective way.

This tutorial use Matplotlib and Seaborn libraries for data visualization as the list below:
- Line Charts
- Bar Graphs
- Histograms
- Scatter Plots
- Heat Maps

### c. [Exploring and Analyzing Image Data with Python](https://medium.com/@sehjadkhoja0/title-exploring-and-analyzing-image-data-with-python-79a7f72f4d2b)

This tutorial provided how to image data analysis and visualization using Python, and focusing on delve into the properties of image data by utilizing various Python packages such as pandas, numpy, seaborn, os, cv2, matplotlib.pyplot, and Plotly.

Learners wil learn about the image data analysis and visualization using Python from the content below:
- Importing Essential Packages
- Loading Images
- Counting Subdirectories
- Listing Directories
- Counting Images in Directories
- Visualizing the Distribution of Images
- Analyzing Image Properties
- Plotting Histogram of Image Sizes
- Plotting Distribution of Image Sizes Using Plotly
- Plotting Scatter Plot of Image Resolutions
- Plotting a 3D Scatter Plot of Image Resolutions
- Plotting the Mean Color Distribution
- Plotting the Mean Color Distribution Using Plotly
- Plotting Color Distributions for Each Image
- Training a Basic CNN Model
- Plotting Training and Validation Accuracy and Loss
- Training a Transfer Learning Model
- Evaluating the Transfer Learning Model
- Making Predictions Using the Trained Model

### d. [Reading and Visualizing GeoTiff | Satellite Images with Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/reading-and-visualizing-geotiff-images-with-python-8dcca7a74510)

This hands-on discusses different ways of reading and visualizing these images with python using a jupyter notebook. The libraries used are GDAL, rasterio, georaster, and Matplotlib(for visualization). These libraries will help us in converting those images to simple numpy array format from there we can also perform other image transformations using numpy or TensorFlow.