# 6.3 Present time-series/thematic comparison on GEE apps

This section provides an overview of time-series comparisons on GEE apps, focusing on their relevance to our study, and presents the time-series comparisons conducted using GEE apps.

## Key learning objectives:
- 6.3.1 Present time-series comparisons on GEE apps


## 6.3.1 Present time-series comparisons on GEE apps

Presenting time-series and thematic comparisons on Google Earth Engine (GEE) apps allows users to visualize and analyze changes in various geospatial datasets over time. 

In this case, NDVI time series tracks changes in mangrove area over time by measuring the greenness of an area around Safwa bay using Landsat 8 imagery. NDVI can shows how healthy vegetation is and where the vegetation is. And when we look at NDVI data over years, it found that during the period 2014-2024, the mangrove forest area increased and become denser. We can see changes in areas, both in terms of mangrove forests and plantation areas, which can help us understand environmental changes and better manage the natural resources.

- [NDVI time series comparisons in year 2014 - 2024 on GEE apps](https://arissara.users.earthengine.app/view/ndvi-time-series-in-safwabay-2014-2024)

#### NOTE: 
- In this GEE apps, users can choose layer to show in both left and right displays.
- The layer including NDVI and true color in 2014-2024 cover the area of interest which is around Safwa Bay, Ras Tanura, Saudi Arabia.
- This apps show the NDVI mean values in year 2014-2024 in "NDVI-Mean values Time Series" chart on the left display.
- And it also show NDVI values in specific location in year 2014-2024 when user click on the map in the right display, and show in "NDVI Time Series of Clicked Point" chart.





```python

```
