00002 Establishing an end-user applications for public use of scientific data products with their researches.md, before:

# 2. Establishing an end-user applications for public use of scientific data products with their researches

In this session, we will design the material for people who are interested in improving flood models with inputs of snow observations by EO satellites, and establishing an end-user application for public uses. However, they should have practical experiences on satellite data applications, and little experience on end-user applications. Finally, this material suits people who are experts on flood modeling.
Here are the selected contents for the outcomes to achieve the persona's needs.

- [2.1. Enable UX design to outreach science data products](subsections/00002/2.1.ipynb)
    - 2.1.1. Understand the principles of UX design
    - 2.1.2. Apply UX design principles to scientific data products
- [2.2. Enable designing end user applications with modern WebGIS frameworks](subsections/00002/2.2.ipynb)
    - 2.1.1. Gain proficiency in modern WebGIS frameworks
    - 2.2.2. Develop and deploy an end-user WebGIS application

Commit message:

Reviewed and modified the content and changed the format

00002 Establishing an end-user applications for public use of scientific data products with their researches.md, after:

# Module 2. Establishing an end-user applications for public use of scientific data products with their researches

This module focuses on creating user-friendly applications for people who are interested in improving flood models with inputs of snow observations by EO satellites. Participant will gain expertise in UX design, WebGIS development, and application development.

By the end of this module, participants will be able to:
- Design user-centered applications for different sectors (e.g., emergency responders).
- Develop interactive web-based applications using modern WebGIS frameworks.

## Here is the content outline:
### [2.1. Enable UX design to outreach science data products](subsections/00002/2.1.ipynb)
- 2.1.1. Understand the principles of UX design
- 2.1.2. Apply UX design principles to scientific data products
### [2.2. Enable designing end user applications with modern WebGIS frameworks](subsections/00002/2.2.ipynb)
- 2.1.1. Gain proficiency in modern WebGIS frameworks
- 2.2.2. Develop and deploy an end-user WebGIS application
