# 3.1 Understand key satellite-derived parameters
This section introduces essential satellite-derived parameters used to assess forestry ecosystems.

## Key learning objectives:
  - 3.1.1 Catching up on the latest methods for assessing biomass estimation
  - 3.1.2 Catching up on the latest methods for accessing forest cover change

## 3.1.1 Catching up on the latest methods for assessing biomass estimation
### a. (Advanced) [Forest aboveground biomass estimation and mapping through high-resolution optical satellite imagery](https://www.mdpi.com/1999-4907/12/7/914)
This paper provides a comprehensive literature review on forest aboveground biomass (AGB) estimation and mapping through high-resolution optical satellite imagery (≤5 m spatial resolution). This review article gives a glance at the published methodologies for AGB prediction modeling and validation. The literature review suggested that, along with the integration of other sensors, QuickBird, WorldView-2, and IKONOS satellite images were most widely used for AGB estimations, with higher estimation accuracies. All studies were grouped into six satellite-derived independent variables, including tree crown, image textures, tree shadow fraction, canopy height, vegetation indices, and multiple variables. Using these satellite-derived independent variables, most of the studies used linear regression (41%), while 30% used linear multiple regression and 18% used non-linear (machine learning) regression, while very few (11%) studies used non-linear (multiple and exponential) regression for estimating AGB. In the context of global forest AGB estimations and monitoring, the advantages, strengths, and limitations were discussed to achieve better accuracy and transparency towards the performance-based payment mechanism of the REDD+ program. Apart from technical limitations, we realized that very few studies talked about real-time monitoring of AGB or quantifying AGB change, a dimension that needs exploration.

## 3.1.2 Catching up on the latest methods for accessing forest cover change

### a. (Basic) [Monitoring and mapping vegetation cover changes in Arid and Semi-Arid areas using remote sensing technology: A review](https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/14/20/5143)
The document reviews the use of remote sensing satellite sensors and methods for monitoring and mapping vegetation cover changes in arid and semi-arid regions. These regions are environmentally sensitive, with limited water resources and vegetation, making the monitoring of vegetation changes crucial for assessing impacts on land productivity and biodiversity. Vegetation cover change is a key indicator of environmental quality, reflecting hydrological, climatic, and human activity changes.

### b. (Basic) [An overview of forest remote sensing technologies](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/overview-forest-remote-sensing-technologies-elias-ayrey-phd-)
Primarily, we have five technologies: Imaging, Photogrammetry, Radar, Hyperspectral, and LiDAR. But before we dive into what those are, there are a few caveats to consider. First, these technologies behave completely differently at different scales. Imagine analyzing a drone image of a tree, where there may be hundreds of pixels representing that tree, versus a satellite image where each pixel is 30 meters wide and there are half a dozen trees inside. Each of those images is very different and gives us vastly different information. These technologies also vary in terms of cost, availability, and cumbersomness - the best data is expensive and rare, and the densest information may a terabyte of data or more per hectare.


```python

```
