# 9.1 Python coding for reading and visualizing ALOS-2 images


## (Basic) [ALOS-2 (Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2; SAR mission)](https://www.eoportal.org/satellite-missions/alos-2#alos-2-advanced-land-observing-satellite-2-sar-mission--daichi-2)

ALOS-2 features an imaging microwave radar, PALSAR-2 (Phased Array type L-band Synthetic Aperture Radar-2); and a multi-purpose imaging vis/IR (visual/infrared) radiometer, CIRC (Compact InfraRed Camera). PALSAR-2 monitors Japanese natural disasters, land and agriculture, and also explores natural resources in the ground and seabeds of Japan. The instrument also monitors forests to contribute to global warming issues on an international scale. CIRC measures land surface temperature, and therefore also acts as a detector of active fires.


## (Basic) [ALOS/ALOS-2 PALSAR/PALSAR-2 Annual Mosaics](https://docs.digitalearthafrica.org/en/latest/sandbox/notebooks/Datasets/ALOS_PALSAR_Annual_Mosaic.html)
The ALOS/ALOS2 PALSAR Annual Mosaic is a global 25 m resolution dataset that combines data from many images captured by JAXA’s PALSAR and PALSAR-2 sensors on ALOS-1 and ALOS-2 satellites respectively. This product contains radar measurement in L-band and in HH and HV polarizations. It has a spatial resolution of 25m and is available annually for 2007 to 2010 (ALOS/PALSAR) and 2015 to 2022 (ALOS-2/PALSAR-2). ALOS/ALOS2 PALSAR mosaic data is part of a global dataset provided by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Earth Observation Research Center. Historically, the JERS annual mosaic is generated from images acquired by the SAR sensor on the Japanese Earth Resources Satellite-1 (JERS-1) satellite.

-  [Hands-on with codes for visualizing ALOS-2 images](code/9.1Reading_and_visualizing_ALOS_2_images.ipynb)



