# 10.1 Basic of python for loading and visualizing of ALOS-2 satellite images
This section introduces participants to understand ALOS-2 data.

## Content:
- 10.1.1 Introduction to ALOS-2 data
- 10.1.2 Loading and Visualizing ALOS-2 satellite imagery

## 10.1.1 Introduction to ALOS-2 data
### a. (Basic) [Introduction to ALOS-2 data imagery](https://www.eoportal.org/satellite-missions/alos-2#alos-2-advanced-land-observing-satellite-2-sar-mission--daichi-2)

This website provides general information about the ALOS-2 (Daichi-2) satellite, their mission and its advanced SAR capabilities for Earth observation and disaster monitoring.
Learners wil understand the points below from this content:
1. Overview of ALOS-2.
2. Mission Capabilities
3. Performance Specifications
4. Space and Hardware Components
5. ALOS-2 (Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2; SAR mission) / Daichi-2
6. Spacecraft
7. Mission Status
8. Sensor Complement 
9. Ground System

### b. (Basic) [Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2（ALOS-2](https://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/alos2/pdf/daichi2_e.pdf)

This website provides overview of the Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2 "DAICHI-2", mission instrument, and introduce ALOS-2’s missions and specific examples of data application.
Learners wil understand the points below from this content:
1. The Earth needs a health check
2. L-band SAR Tradition and Evolution
3. Monitoring disasters for a safer life
4. Tackling global-scale environmental problems
5. Overview of the Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2 "DAISHI-2"
6. Evolution of DAICHI-2 from DAICHI
7. Mission Instrument
8. Satellite bus supporting DAISHI-2 and future satellite missions
9. Block diagram of the ALOS-2 system
10. Satellite operation after separation from H-IIA
11. Ground system and observation operation


### c. (Advance) [Changes in ports (cargo terminals, etc.) before and after the COVID-19 outbreak](https://earth.jaxa.jp/covid19/industry/index.html)

Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) can be used to observe the earth's surface day and night in all weather conditions. The combination of PALSAR-2, JAXA's L-band SAR onboard ALOS-2 and C-band SAR onboard European Sentinel allows us to observe the conditions of containers, vehicles, etc. at container terminals. 

Here, the changes of containers, vehicles, etc. in the container terminals at the Port of Nagoya and the Port of Mikawa (Toyohashi) in Aichi Prefecture are shown under COVID-19 pandemic. Both of the ports have a high volume of imports and exports in Japan.

### d. (Optional) [ALOS-2 PALSAR-2 ScanSAR Products](https://www.eorc.jaxa.jp/ALOS/en/dataset/palsar2_l22_e.htm)
ALOS-2 / PALSAR-2 ScanSAR radiometric terrain corrected and orthorectified image product (Level 2.2, L2.2) is opened to the public.


## 10.1.2 Loading and Visualizing ALOS-2 satellite imagery

### a. (Basic) [Python Principles](http://pythonprinciples.com/)

From this tutorials, learners will learn the basics of programming which acquire their knowledge through examples, definitions, and hands-on experimentation. They will improve Python skill with clear explanations and practical exercises. They will get instant feedback on their code, and can test themself with challenges and build skills with projects.

Learners wil learn about the Python Principles from the content below:
1. Introduction
2. Strings and variavles
3. Function calls
4. Function definitions
5. Types
6. Conditionals and comparisons
7. Lists
8. Loops
9. Continue and break
10. Tuples and slicing
11. Dictionaries
12. Objects and methods
13. Final advice

### b. (Basic) [Setting up a Normal Python Environment](https://pygis.io/docs/b_getting_started.html#overview)

From this tutorials, learners will learn how to:
1. Get a Python environment up and running
2. Execute simple Python commands
3. Run a sample program
4. Install the code libraries that underpin these lectures

### c. (Basic) [Reading and Visualizing GeoTiff | Satellite Images with Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/reading-and-visualizing-geotiff-images-with-python-8dcca7a74510)

This hands-on discusses different ways of reading and visualizing these images with python using a jupyter notebook. The libraries used are GDAL, rasterio, georaster, and Matplotlib(for visualization). These libraries will help us in converting those images to simple numpy array format from there we can also perform other image transformations using numpy or TensorFlow.

### d. [Visualizing raster layers](https://automating-gis-processes.github.io/CSC/notebooks/L5/plotting-raster.html#Basic-plotting)

This text provides a step-by-step guide for visualizing raster layers using Python libraries like rasterio and matplotlib. The main takeaways include:
- Basic Raster Visualization 
- RGB True Color Composite
- False Color Composite
- Histogram of the raster data

These visualization techniques are critical for interpreting satellite imagery, especially in multi-spectral analysis.

### e. [Rasterio: access to geospatial raster data](https://rasterio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

This excerpt explains how to use Rasterio, a Python library, to interact with geospatial raster data like GeoTIFF files commonly used in geographic information systems (GIS) for storing satellite imagery, elevation data.

### f. [Plotting](https://rasterio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/topics/plotting.html)

This text provides an overview of how to visualize raster data using the Python rasterio library in combination with matplotlib. Demonstrates how to effectively plot and analyze geospatial raster data using rasterio and matplotlib in Python.

This text provides an overview of how to visualize raster data using the Python rasterio library in combination with matplotlib. It covers the following key points:

### g. [Data Visualization using Matplotlib in Python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/data-visualization-using-matplotlib/)

Data visualization is a crucial aspect of data analysis, enabling data scientists and analysts to present complex data in a more understandable and insightful manner. One of the most popular libraries for data visualization in Python is Matplotlib. In this article, we will provide a comprehensive guide to using Matplotlib for creating various types of plots and customizing them to fit specific needs and how to visualize data with the help of the Matplotlib library of Python.

### h. [Loading and Visualizing Alos-2 data](subsections/00010/code/Loading-and-Visualizing_Alos-2_data.ipynb)