# 10.1 Basic of python for loading and visualizing of ALOS-2 satellite images
This section introduces participants to understand ALOS-2 data.

## Content:
- 10.1.1 Setting up the Python environment 
- 10.1.2 Loading and visualizing ALOS-2 satellite imagery

## 10.1.1 Setting up the Python evironment 
### a. (Basic) [Python Principles](http://pythonprinciples.com/)

From this tutorials, learners will learn the basics of programming which acquire their knowledge through examples, definitions, and hands-on experimentation. They will improve Python skill with clear explanations and practical exercises. They will get instant feedback on their code, and can test themself with challenges and build skills with projects.

Learners wil learn about the Python Principles from the content below:
1. Introduction
2. Strings and variavles
3. Function calls
4. Function definitions
5. Types
6. Conditionals and comparisons
7. Lists
8. Loops
9. Continue and break
10. Tuples and slicing
11. Dictionaries
12. Objects and methods
13. Final advice

### b. (Basic) [Setting up a Normal Python Environment](https://pygis.io/docs/b_getting_started.html#overview)

From this tutorials, learners will learn how to:
1. Get a Python environment up and running
2. Execute simple Python commands
3. Run a sample program
4. Install the code libraries that underpin these lectures



## 10.1.2 Loading and visualizing ALOS-2 satellite imagery 
### a. (Basic) [Introduction to ALOS-2 data imagery](https://www.eoportal.org/satellite-missions/alos-2#alos-2-advanced-land-observing-satellite-2-sar-mission--daichi-2)

This website provides general information about the ALOS-2 (Daichi-2) satellite, their mission and its advanced SAR capabilities for Earth observation and disaster monitoring.
Learners wil understand the points below from this content:
1. Overview of ALOS-2.
2. Mission Capabilities
3. Performance Specifications
4. Space and Hardware Components
5. ALOS-2 (Advanced Land Observing Satellite-2; SAR mission) / Daichi-2
6. Spacecraft
7. Mission Status
8. Sensor Complement 
9. Ground System

### b. [Reading and Visualizing GeoTiff | Satellite Images with Python](https://towardsdatascience.com/reading-and-visualizing-geotiff-images-with-python-8dcca7a74510)

This hands-on discusses different ways of reading and visualizing these images with python using a jupyter notebook. The libraries used are GDAL, rasterio, georaster, and Matplotlib(for visualization). These libraries will help us in converting those images to simple numpy array format from there we can also perform other image transformations using numpy or TensorFlow.