# 1.1 Enable evaluating PV potentials with satellite/geospatial datasets
This section aims to support learners to enhance their knowledge and skills to assess PV potentials using satellite and geospatial data. By understanding the fundamentals of remote sensing and exploring practical applications, participants will be able to evaluate PV potentials across various sectors.

## Key learning objectives:
  - 1.1.1 Basic principal of remote sensing for PV potential evaluation.
  - 1.1.2 Use cases of remote sensing in PV potential assessment.
  - 1.1.3 Hands-on exercise on automated detection of solar PV arrays in sentinel-2 imagery.

## 1.1.1 Basic principal of remote sensing for PV potential evaluation

### a. (Basic) [Fundamentals of Remote Sensing](https://appliedsciences.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/2022-11/Fundamentals_of_RS_Edited_SC.pdf)

You wil learn the points below from this content:
1. Introdutory principles of remote sensing
2. Satellite platforms and data specifications, such as spectral, temporal, spatial, radiometric resolution.
3. Product levels of satellite data
4. Coordinate systems of satellite data
5. Advantages and disadvanges in practice

<!--
#### What is remote sensing?
- Remote sensing involves obtaining information about objects from a distance, with photography being a common method. 
- Data collection can be ground-based, airborne, or spaceborne, and depends on the information needed, the level of detail, and data frequency.
- The energy from the sun, known as electromagnetic radiation, is reflected, absorbed, and emitted by Earth's atmosphere and surface. Satellites with sensors measure this radiation to analyze various features of Earth's spheres. The electromagnetic spectrum includes all wave frequencies, though most are undetectable by the human eye. Different materials have unique spectral signatures based on their reflectance and absorption of different wavelengths. For instance, vegetation reflects near-infrared light, making healthy plants appear green, while water absorbs longer wavelengths, making it appear blue. Atmospheric correction helps obtain accurate surface reflectance by removing atmospheric scattering and absorption effects.

#### Satellite characteristics
- Orbits: Polar/Non-Polar Orbit vs. Geostationary
- Energy Source: Passive vs. Active
- Solar and Terrestrial Spectra: Visible, UV, IR, Microwave
- Measurement Technique: Scanning; Non-Scanning; Imager; Sounders
- Resolution Type and Quality: Spatial, Temporal, Spectral, Radiometric
- Application: Weather, Ocean Color, Land Mapping, Air Quality, Radiation Budget, etc.

#### Satellite data processing levels
Satellite data is available at different stages (or levels) of processing, going from raw data collected from the satellite to polished products that visualize information.
- Level 0 & 1 is the raw instrument data that may be time-referenced. It is the most difficult to use.
- Level 2 is Level 1 data that has been converted into a geophysical quantity through a computer algorithm (known as retrieval). This data is geo-referenced and calibrated.
- Level 3 is Level 2 data that has been mapped on a uniform space-time grid and quality controlled.
- Level 4 is Level 3 data that has been combined with models or other instrument data.

#### Projections and coordinate systems
- All spatial data, including satellite imagery, must be indexed, or georeferenced, to a fixed point on Earth’s surface.
- Pairing a data point or pixel with a specific location on the ground requires a coordinate reference system (CRS).
- Two types of coordinate systems are commonly used, geographic and projected.

#### Advantages and disadvantages of remote sensing
##### Advantages
- Provides information where there are no ground-based measurements.
- Provides globally consistent observations.
- Provides continuous monitoring of our planet.
- Earth systems models integrate surface -based and remote sensing observations and provide uniformly gridded, frequent information of water resources data parameters.
- Data are freely available and there are web -based tools for data analysis.
##### Disadvantages
- It is very difficult to obtain high spectral, spatial, temporal, and radiometric resolution all at the same time.
- Large amounts of data in a variety of formats can lead to more time and processing.
- Applying satellite data may require additional processing, visualization, and other tools.
- While the data are generally validated with selected surface measurements, regional and local assessment is recommended.
  
#### Remote sensing terminology
- Coordinate Reference System: A coordinate-based local, regional, or global system used to locate geographical entities.
- Spatial Resolution: The ground surface area that forms one pixel in the image.
- Georeference: To link spatial data to its correct location.
- et.s
-->

### b. (Course) [Fundamentals of remote sensing and geospatial analysis](https://www.udemy.com/course/introduction-to-remote-sensing-1/?couponCode=LETSLEARNNOWPP)
This section focuses on the key principles of remote sensing relevant to evaluating photovoltaic (PV) potential. 
Key learning objectives:
- Acquire a thorough knowledge of remote sensing principles
- Spectral signatures
- Steps and knowledge of pre-processing satellite images: Geometric, Radiometric, Atmospheric corrections
- Get familiarized with present satellite remote sensing platforms
- How to create basic custom algorithms for any material being investigated
- Understand the physics of EM radiation
- Geospatial data access and software
- Understand the physical principles behind the interaction of EM radiation and multiple types of land cover (vegetation, water, minerals, rocks, etc.)
- Understand how atmospheric components can affect a signal recorded by remote sensing platforms and how to correct for them

### c. Understanding geospatial data and their sources
#### [Vector data](https://docs.qgis.org/3.34/en/docs/gentle_gis_introduction/vector_data.html)
Vector features can be decomposed into three different geometric primitives: points, polylines and polygons.

- Point
A point is composed of one coordinate pair representing a specific location in a coordinate system. Points are the most basic geometric primitives having no length or area.

- Line String
Lines usually represent features that are linear in nature. For example, maps show rivers, roads, and pipelines as vector lines.

- Polygon
Polygon features are enclosed areas like dams, islands, country boundaries and so on. Like polyline features, polygons are created from a series of vertices that are connected with a continuous line. 

#### Vector data file formats
- GeoJSON
GeoJSON is an open standard format specifically designed for representing simple geographical features, along with their non-spatial attributes, based on JavaScript Object Notation (JSON). It can accommodate diverse types of geographical features such as points, line strings, polygons, and multi-part collections of these types. One of its primary advantages is its readability - both by humans and machines, as it stores all the relevant data in a single text file.

- GeoPackage
GeoPackage is a modern, open standard data format that adopts the principles of open format standards, ensuring non-proprietary access and wide compatibility. It leverages SQLite, a widely used, self-contained, and serverless transactional SQL database engine, making it an exceptionally portable and lightweight choice for data storage.

- Shapefile
A Shapefile is akin to a feature class – it stores a set of features that share a common geometry type (point, line, or polygon), possess the same attributes, and occupy a shared spatial extent.

#### [Raster Data](https://docs.qgis.org/2.18/en/docs/gentle_gis_introduction/raster_data.html)

A raster dataset is composed of rows (running across) and columns (running down) of pixels (also know as cells). Each pixel represents a geographical region, and the value in that pixel represents some characteristic of that region.

#### [Point cloud](https://flyguys.com/point-cloud/#:~:text=A%20point%20cloud%20is%20a%20collection%20of%20individual,it%20creates%20a%20three%20dimensional%20map%20or%20model.)

A point cloud is a collection of individual data points in a three-dimensional plane with each point having a set coordinate on the X, Y, and Z axis. When each point is placed together, it creates a three dimensional map or model. For example, if the data compiled to create the point cloud is taken from a neighborhood, it will show the location of each building, tree, and power line, along with its elevation relative to the ground. Depending on the data gathered and how dense the point cloud is, the more details and specific types of terrain and structures you’ll see.

Point clouds are generally created in one of two ways, LiDAR and photogrammetry, and are georeferenced for accuracy.

- LiDAR
Light Detection and Ranging, or LiDAR, is a remote sensing method that scans an area with a laser and then measures the light’s reflection and range from the earth’s surface. This data is cross-referenced with GPS and inertial measurement units and each pulse of the scanner creates a data point. Because laser scanners can have a scan speed of well over a million points per second, LiDAR is the most accurate, detailed, and precise way to create a point cloud.

- Photogrammetry
Photogrammetry creates measurements using a series of images. The photographs are taken from different locations, and points are triangulated then plotted on the three dimensional space. Drones can take thousands of pictures of an area from different angles and analysts can process the images together to develop a point cloud, filling minimal gaps with surface reconstruction.

#### (Basic) [Spatial data](https://pygis.io/docs/c_features.html)
Creating and understanding spatial data is often a vital component in the field of geospatial data analysis. This lesson introduces you to the process of generating new spatial data from scratch, as well as enhancing your understanding of the structure and manipulation of spatial data in Python.

-  [Hands-on with codes for spatial data types in Python](4*/code/4.1.1spatial_data.ipynb): 

#### [OSM DATA](https://pygis.io/docs/d_access_osm.html)
OpenStreetMap (OSM) is a global collaborative (crowd-sourced) dataset and project that aims at creating a free editable map of the world containing a lot of information about our environment. It contains data for example about streets, buildings, different services, and landuse.

-  [Hands-on with codes for Accessing OSM Data in Python](code/4.1.1access_osm.ipynb)

#### [CENSUS DATA](https://pygis.io/docs/d_access_census.html)
Census data provides detailed demographic information such as population density, age distribution, and household income. When combined with remote sensing data, it can help in analyzing and visualizing population patterns and trends over geographical areas.
-  [Hands-on with codes for Accessing Census and ACS Data in Python](code/4.1.1access_census.ipynb)

### d. Sources of geospatial data

#### [10 Free GIS Data Sources: Best Global Raster and Vector Datasets](https://gisgeography.com/best-free-gis-data-sources-raster-vector/)

Here is the list to turbo-charge the search for reputable and free GIS data.

**1. Natural Earth Data:** Natural Earth Data is an excellent resource for cartographers, offering key cultural and physical vector GIS datasets on a global scale, along with beautiful hillshade relief raster datasets. Being in the public domain, it allows unrestricted use, modification, and distribution. Given these benefits, it's highly recommended to download Natural Earth Data for your mapping needs.

  Advantages
  - Download global free GIS data in the public domain.
  - Supported by the North American Cartographic Information Society (NACIS).

  Data Types
  - Cultural, physical, and raster (basemap) data.
  - Quick start kit (MXD and QGS files) with all the essential stylized layers.

**2. USGS Earth Explorer:** The USGS Earth Explorer is a leading free source for satellite and aerial imagery, offering data globally. Its user-friendly interface simplifies access to remote sensing data, and a bulk download application is available for multiple datasets. Registration is free.

  Advantages
  - Satellite imagery is worldwide and not just within the United States.
  - User interface is state-of-the-art with easy-to-use filters.

  Data Types
  - Landsat, Sentinel-2, and land cover.
  - Digital Elevation Models such as NASA’s ASTER and SRTM.

**3. OpenStreetMap:** OpenStreetMap (OSM) leverages crowdsourcing to provide highly detailed GIS data, though accuracy can vary since it's created by the public. Generally, the accuracy is good, and the data is continually improved by users. For GIS analysts seeking free street-level data, OSM is ideal, potentially offering the largest inventory of buildings globally.

  Advantages
  - Highly detailed free GIS data with different levels of accuracy and completeness.
  - Often updated by GIS users across the world.
  
  Data Types
  - High spatial resolution cultural vector data such as buildings, roads, and waterways.
  - Format (PBF) can be difficult to convert into geospatial format

**4. Esri Open Data Hub:** The Esri Open Data Hub is a valuable resource for free GIS data, hosting over 250,000 datasets from more than 5,000 organizations worldwide. Though it may require sifting through unmerged data, the comprehensive search features, including map previews and various download formats, make it an excellent tool for finding specific GIS data. Its extensive collection makes it one of the most thorough sources available.

  Advantages
  - As of 2020, it has 250,000+ open data sets from over 5,000+ organizations worldwide.
  - Managed by the largest commercial GIS organization in the world.
  
  Data Types
  - Download formats are in spreadsheets, KML, and shapefile.
  - APIs are OGC WMS, GeoJSON, and GeoService.

**5. NASA’s Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC):** NASA’s Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC) provides a range of global GIS data highlighting human-environment interactions. Its flagship product, the gridded population of the world, includes detailed population characteristics and has over 800 citations. The data, including global urban and local extents from nighttime lights, can be viewed as thematic maps or assembled manually. The SEDAC map viewer enhances accessibility to this socioeconomic data.

  Advantages
  - Flagship data is its gridded population of the world.
  - Global socioeconomic data comes from 15 different themes.
  
  Data Types
  - Socioeconomic data includes a range of topics such as agriculture, climate and health.

**6. UNEP Environmental Data Explorer:** The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is a key source for UN data, offering over 500 variables including freshwater, climate, and health data. While the interface can be challenging to navigate, using the advanced filter for "Geospatial Data Sets" allows you to download free GIS data on topics like climate, disasters, and ecosystems.

  Advantages
  - Spatial and non-spatial data on a variety of themes.
  - Display maps, graphs, and tables on the fly.
  
  Data Types
  - Themes include population, forests, emissions, disasters, and GDP for spatial and non-spatial data.

**7. NASA Earth Observations (NEO):** NASA’s Earth Observations (NEO) provides daily snapshots of Earth's climate and environmental conditions through over 50 global datasets focused on five themes, mostly climate-related. Data includes aerosols, chlorophyll, and sea surface temperature, all available for free download in JPEG, GeoTIFF, and Google Earth formats.

  Advantages
  - Spatial and non-spatial data on a variety of themes.
  - Display maps, graphs, and tables on the fly.
  
  Data Types
  - All raster grids are atmosphere, energy, land, life, and ocean GIS data.

**8. Sentinel Satellite Data:** Sentinel-2 offers the highest resolution satellite imagery available for free, accessible through the Copernicus Browser. After registering and creating an account, users can select an area of interest, choose between S2A or S2B products, and download the desired data. The Copernicus Browser also includes Sentinel-1 synthetic aperture radar, so users should carefully select their downloads.

  Advantages
  - 10-meter resolution satellite data readily available at your fingertips.
  - Sentinel 2 data has 11 spectral bands including red, green, blue, and near-infrared.
  
  Data Types
  - Raster data – 11 channels from Sentinel-2. Synthetic aperture radar from Sentinel-1.

**9. Open Topography:** OpenTopography offers 465 high-resolution datasets, primarily point clouds, with some in raster format. While most data covers the United States, there is also coverage in Europe, Asia, and Australia.

  Advantages
  - Select regions in the world and search available LiDAR data.
  - If LiDAR is unavailable, coarse global DEMs are available for download.
  
  Data Types
  - LiDAR (90% in the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, Haiti, Mexico, and Puerto Rico).
  - Subscription-based with OT+

**10. Terra Populus:** Terra Populus (TerraPop) integrates census data from over 160 countries, spanning up to six decades for household-level and aggregate data in more than 80 countries. It allows exploration of temporal and spatial changes in the human-environment system, accessible to both researchers and the public. TerraPop includes data on land cover, land use, and climate, supported by the National Science Foundation and the University of Minnesota, with ongoing updates.

  Advantages
  - User-friendly interface with customized temporal data delivery.
  
  Data Types
  - Micro and environmental data describing land cover, land use, and climate.


## 1.1.2 Use cases of remote sensing for PV potential evaluation

### a. (Advanced) [Solar Panel Detection from Aerial View or Satellite Images](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/solar-panel-detection-from-aerial-view-or-satellite-images-648c22c260ba)

  The article discusses using Faster R-CNN ResNet101 and OpenCV for detecting solar panels from aerial or satellite images, driven by the need for detailed data on rooftop solar PV installations. The detection approach involves data collection, image labeling, training, evaluating, and improving the machine learning model. Tools used include Google Static Maps API for images, Labellerr for labeling, TensorFlow for training, and OpenCV for image preprocessing.

### b. (Advanced) [A city-scale estimation of rooftop solar photovoltaic potential based on deep learning](https://felix-rz.github.io/pdf/2021_city-scale.pdf)

  In this study, a generic framework for estimating the rooftop solar PV potential on a city-scale using publicly available high-resolution satellite images is proposed.

### c. (Advanced) [Evaluation of Photovoltaic Systems Performance Using Satellites and Drones Digital Imaging](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/380548519_Evaluation_of_Photovoltaic_Systems_Performance_Using_Satellites_and_Drones_Digital_Imaging)

  This study focuses on using digital imaging to assess PV generator performance, highlighting the advantages of switching from satellite images to more precise digital information. This digital approach improves the accuracy of performance evaluations by sensing thermal behavior and reflectance from individual panels.

## 1.1.3 Apply remote sensing to evaluating PV potentialiious sectors
### a. (Advanced) [Automatic detection of PVs through remote sensing](https://github.com/Lkruitwagen/remote-sensing-solar-pv/blob/master/dispatch_learning_jobs.ipynb)

A repository for sharing progress on the automated detection of solar PV arrays in sentinel-2 imagery using U-Net model.
-  [Hands-on with codes for Solar Panels segmentation](code/1.1.1.solar-panels-segmentation-u-net.ipynb)
 


```python

```
